Assignment Module-2

1) What are the benefits of using CSS?
CSS handles the look and feel part of a web page. Using CSS, you can control the color of the text, the style of fonts, the spacing between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out, etc. CSS saves time − You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in multiple HTML pages.

2) What are the disadvantages of CSS?
- CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among web browsers.
- There exists a scarcity of security.
- After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear.

3) What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
CSS2, which was comprised of a single document, CSS3 has its specifications divided into many individual modules, which makes CSS3 a whole lot easier to handle

4) Name a few CSS style components
- Selecter:HTML element name, id name, class name.
- Property:It's like an attribute such as background color,font-size,position,text-align,color,border etc.
- Values:which defines property or values allocate for properties.

5) What do you understand by CSS opacity?
The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

6) How can the background color of an element be changed?
Add a CSS class to the div you'd like to change. First, find the div in your HTML code and add a class to the opening tag.

7) How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the background-repeat property. You can use no-repeat value for the background-repeat property if you do not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.

8) What is the use of the background-position property?
The background shorthand CSS property sets all background style properties at once, such as color, image, origin and size, or repeat method.

9) Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
background-attachment property

10) Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.

11) How to center block elements using CSS1?
With css the way to center anything that's a block level element is with the margin property. One of the values of margin is auto and by setting auto on the left and right margin our block level element will center itself.

12) How to maintain the CSS specifications?
The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).

13) What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
There are three ways to add CSS to HTML. You can add inline CSS in a style attribute to style a single HTML element on the page. You can embed an internal stylesheet by adding CSS to the head section of your HTML doc. Or you can link to an external stylesheet that will contain all your CSS separate from your HTML.

14) What is embedded style sheets?
It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document.

15) What are the external style sheets?
An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

16) What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
- One change to the style sheet will change all linked pages.
- You can create classes of styles that can then be used on many different HTML elements.
- Consistent look and feel across multiple web pages.

17) What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

18) What are the media types allowed by CSS?
- Continuous or paged.
- Cisual, audio, speech, or tactile.
- Grid (for character grid devices), or bitmap.

19) What is the rule set?
A collection of rules or signatures that network traffic or system activity is compared against to determine an action to take such as forwarding or rejecting a packet, creating an alert, or allowing a system event.